docs/model/equations/eq_balance.rst, before:

.. _eq_balance:

Energy Balance
===============

Demand
------

Load
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    con1a_bal(n,hh) ..
        ( 1 - phi_pro_load(n) ) * d(n,hh) + sum( map_n_sto(n,sto) , STO_IN(n,sto,hh) )
 
Demand side management (DSM)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %DSM%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_shift) , DSM_UP_DEMAND(n,dsm_shift,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Endogenous electric vehicles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %EV_endogenous%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_ev(n,ev) , EV_CHARGE(n,ev,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Prosumage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::
       
    %prosumage%$ontext
        + G_MARKET_M2PRO(n,hh)
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_IN_M2PRO(n,sto,hh))
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_IN_M2M(n,sto,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext

Heat
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %heat%$ontext
        + sum( (bu,ch) , theta_dir(n,bu,ch) * (H_DIR(n,bu,ch,hh) + H_DHW_DIR(n,bu,ch,hh)) )
        + sum( (bu,ch) , theta_sets(n,bu,ch) * (H_SETS_IN(n,bu,ch,hh) + H_DHW_AUX_ELEC_IN(n,bu,ch,hh)) )
        + sum( (bu,hp) , theta_hp(n,bu,hp) * H_HP_IN(n,bu,hp,hh) )
        + sum( (bu,hel) , theta_elec(n,bu,hel) * H_ELECTRIC_IN(n,bu,hel,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext
                
        =E=
 
Supply
------

Base module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dispatchable power plants
******************************

.. code::
    
    sum(map_n_tech(n,dis) , G_L(n,dis,hh))

Non-dispatchable power plants
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(map_n_tech(n,nondis) , G_RES(n,nondis,hh))

Storage
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(sto , STO_OUT(n,sto,hh))

Reservoirs
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(map_n_rsvr(n,rsvr) , RSVR_OUT(n,rsvr,hh))
             

Cross-nodal flow
******************************

.. code::

    + sum( map_l(l) , inc(l,n) * F(l,hh))

Reserves
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %reserves%$ontext
    *Balancing Correction Factor
            + sum( map_n_tech(n,dis) ,
            sum( reserves_do ,  RP_DIS(n,reserves_do,dis,hh) * phi_reserves_call(n,reserves_do,hh))
            - sum( reserves_up ,  RP_DIS(n,reserves_up,dis,hh) * phi_reserves_call(n,reserves_up,hh))
            )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Demand side management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %DSM%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_curt) , DSM_CU(n,dsm_curt,hh))
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_shift) , DSM_DO_DEMAND(n,dsm_shift,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext

Endogenous electric vehicles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::
    
    %EV_endogenous%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_ev(n,ev) , EV_DISCHARGE(n,ev,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Prosumage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %prosumage%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_res_pro(n,res) , G_MARKET_PRO2M(n,res,hh) )
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_OUT_PRO2M(n,sto,hh))
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_OUT_M2M(n,sto,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext


Infeasibility
-------------

.. code::
    
    + G_INFES(n,hh)
    ;

Commit message:

Added notes on further dev

docs/model/equations/eq_balance.rst, after:

.. _eq_balance:

Energy Balance
===============

*Detailed explanations on every section of the equations will be added soon.*

Demand
------

Load
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    con1a_bal(n,hh) ..
        ( 1 - phi_pro_load(n) ) * d(n,hh) + sum( map_n_sto(n,sto) , STO_IN(n,sto,hh) )
 
Demand side management (DSM)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %DSM%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_shift) , DSM_UP_DEMAND(n,dsm_shift,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Endogenous electric vehicles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %EV_endogenous%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_ev(n,ev) , EV_CHARGE(n,ev,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Prosumage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::
       
    %prosumage%$ontext
        + G_MARKET_M2PRO(n,hh)
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_IN_M2PRO(n,sto,hh))
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_IN_M2M(n,sto,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext

Heat
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %heat%$ontext
        + sum( (bu,ch) , theta_dir(n,bu,ch) * (H_DIR(n,bu,ch,hh) + H_DHW_DIR(n,bu,ch,hh)) )
        + sum( (bu,ch) , theta_sets(n,bu,ch) * (H_SETS_IN(n,bu,ch,hh) + H_DHW_AUX_ELEC_IN(n,bu,ch,hh)) )
        + sum( (bu,hp) , theta_hp(n,bu,hp) * H_HP_IN(n,bu,hp,hh) )
        + sum( (bu,hel) , theta_elec(n,bu,hel) * H_ELECTRIC_IN(n,bu,hel,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext
                
        =E=
 
Supply
------

Base module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Dispatchable power plants
******************************

.. code::
    
    sum(map_n_tech(n,dis) , G_L(n,dis,hh))

Non-dispatchable power plants
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(map_n_tech(n,nondis) , G_RES(n,nondis,hh))

Storage
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(sto , STO_OUT(n,sto,hh))

Reservoirs
******************************

.. code::

    + sum(map_n_rsvr(n,rsvr) , RSVR_OUT(n,rsvr,hh))
             

Cross-nodal flow
******************************

.. code::

    + sum( map_l(l) , inc(l,n) * F(l,hh))

Reserves
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %reserves%$ontext
    *Balancing Correction Factor
            + sum( map_n_tech(n,dis) ,
            sum( reserves_do ,  RP_DIS(n,reserves_do,dis,hh) * phi_reserves_call(n,reserves_do,hh))
            - sum( reserves_up ,  RP_DIS(n,reserves_up,dis,hh) * phi_reserves_call(n,reserves_up,hh))
            )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Demand side management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %DSM%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_curt) , DSM_CU(n,dsm_curt,hh))
        + sum( map_n_dsm(n,dsm_shift) , DSM_DO_DEMAND(n,dsm_shift,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext

Endogenous electric vehicles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::
    
    %EV_endogenous%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_ev(n,ev) , EV_DISCHARGE(n,ev,hh) )
    $ontext
    $offtext

Prosumage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code::

    %prosumage%$ontext
        + sum( map_n_res_pro(n,res) , G_MARKET_PRO2M(n,res,hh) )
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_OUT_PRO2M(n,sto,hh))
        + sum( map_n_sto_pro(n,sto) , STO_OUT_M2M(n,sto,hh))
    $ontext
    $offtext


Infeasibility
-------------

.. code::
    
    + G_INFES(n,hh)
    ;
