docs/configuration/constraints.rst, before:

Constraints
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

``constraints_list.csv``: This file contains information on all iterable constraint formulations. The column header specifies the *constraint type*, the row value the respective name of the constraint.

In the default setting, this file looks as follows:

.. csv-table:: Default ``constraints_list.csv``
   :header: "constraint_minRES","constraint_carbon"

    "rescon_0a","max_node_CO2"
    "rescon_1b","max_overall_CO2"
    "rescon_2c",
    "rescon_3b",
    "rescon_4e",

Currently, there are five different specifications of the *minimum renewable energy share* constraint and two different for the *CO2 budget* constraint. If you don not specify any constraint formulation in ``iteration_table.csv``, DIETERpy will choose automatically the first values in the respective columns to be considered in the model run: ``rescon_0a`` as *RES share* (``constraint_minRES``) and ``max_node_CO2`` as *CO2 budget* (``constraint_carbon``).

There is no need to change this file unless you want to rename the existing constraints, add (1) new formulations for existing constraints, or (2) add formulations for a new constraint. In case of (1), add the respective name in the right column and adjust the code accordingly in the ``model.gms`` file. In case of (2), you have to add a new column to ``constraints_list.csv`` that contains the formulation names of the constraint.

Commit message:

Added table with constraints to section

docs/configuration/constraints.rst, after:

.. _constraints:

**********************
Constraints
**********************

``constraints_list.csv``: This file contains information on all iterable constraint formulations. The column header specifies the *constraint type*, the row value the respective name of the constraint.

In the default setting, this file looks as follows:

.. csv-table:: Default ``constraints_list.csv``
   :header: "constraint_minRES","constraint_carbon"

    "rescon_0a","max_node_CO2"
    "rescon_1b","max_overall_CO2"
    "rescon_2c",
    "rescon_3b",
    "rescon_4e",

Currently, there are five different specifications of the *minimum renewable energy share* constraint and two different for the *CO2 budget* constraint available to choose from:

.. csv-table:: Available constraint alternatives
   :header: "Constraint type","Identifer","Constraint","Explanation"

   "RES share", "constraint_minRES","rescon_0a", "Maximum share of conventional generation in total demand, losses are fulfilled with the minRES share."
   "RES share", "constraint_minRES","rescon_1b", "Maximum share of conventional generation in total demand, losses completely covered by RES."
   "RES share", "constraint_minRES","rescon_2c", "Maximum share of conventional generation in total generation, losses covered by RES proportional to (1-phi_min_res)."
   "RES share", "constraint_minRES","rescon_3b", "Maximum share of conventional generation in total demand, losses completely covered by RES."
   "RES share", "constraint_minRES","rescon_4e", "Maximum share of conventional generation in total demand, losses fulfilled in proportion to RES share."
   "CO2 budget","constraint_carbon","max_overall_CO2", "There is a cap on the available carbon budget, which applies to the generation across the entire spatial scope of the model."
   "CO2 budget","constraint_carbon","max_node_CO2", "There is a country-specific cap on the available carbon budget, which applies to the generation within each region separately."

If you do not specify any constraint formulation in ``iteration_table.csv``, DIETERpy will choose automatically the first values in the respective columns to be considered in the model run: ``rescon_0a`` as *RES share* (``constraint_minRES``) and ``max_node_CO2`` as *CO2 budget* (``constraint_carbon``).

There is no need to change this file unless you want to rename the existing constraints, add (1) new formulations for existing constraints, or (2) add formulations for a new constraint. In case of (1), add the respective name in the right column and adjust the code accordingly in the ``model.gms`` file. In case of (2), you have to add a new column to ``constraints_list.csv`` that contains the formulation names of the constraint.
